if you already know who equinex is you
know the treat you're in for today for
everyone else equinex who sponsored this
facility tour was founded in 1998 and
currently operates over 260 data centers
globally through which flows over half
of the tier one internet backbone in a
nutshell if you're using a computer
right now which you probably are like
this guy you are more likely than not
touching equinex infrastructure right
now and guys I get to take take you deep
behind the curtain I'm talking power
data cooling security it's pretty much
everything that we do on our Channel yes
even pool server cooling except
legit you see as pretty as it might look
the building behind me was purpose-built
from the ground up to be a function
First Data Center and and that manifests
in a lot of interesting ways for
starters it was not built from the
ground up but rather the first floor was
lifted a few feet off of ground level
why security like any equinex facility
that building needs to be able to
withstand a breach attempt from a
vehicle ramming into it but the city
wouldn't let them surround it with ugly
barriers so instead they lifted up the
foundation itself so if you drove
anything less than that city bus into 45
Parliament Street Toronto you would
eventually regain Consciousness and find
the building to be quite unbreached
honestly speaking you'd probably have
better luck getting inside if you just
walk through the front
door JK once you get in there you'll
find yourself in a series of airlock
style doors like this one with at least
three biometric security checkpoints
before you so much as catch a glimpse of
a customer rack oo but I get to go but
what's the big deal you might think it's
just some servers and network switches
right well yeah but really important
ones equinix houses critical
infrastructure for everyone from
telecommunications providers to cloud
service providers to Securities
exchanges and even governments to put it
in perspective some poor schlub
accidentally overcooked a bag of
microwave popcorn at this location and
the city sent seven fir trucks on the
off chance that equinex was on fire and
hadn't already Managed IT with their own
fire suppression systems for more
context their service level agreement
with diesel fuel providers is on par
with the local hospital because well
think about it realistically is that
hospital getting anything done without
data services probably not let's head up
here's something cool everything in this
building except the generators we're
about to see on the fifth floor was
brought up in this freight elevator it
has a full ful loaded capacity that's
equivalent to about four loaded Mini
Coopers and this is really important for
cloud providers who pre-build their
racks offsite it allows them to wheel a
rack into their cage hook up power hook
up Cooling and walk away we'll take a
look at some of those cages later but
first we need to go all the way up to
the fifth floor where possible equinex
uses a top to bottom approach to
building design so we're going to go in
that order why do they design top down
you might ask that's because if you
spring a leak it's going to go down so
this floor contains everything that's
needed to run the whole building in the
event of a major outside Interruption
and nothing can leak on top of it which
is especially important for this inside
the apply named battery room is enough
capacity to run the entire building at
full load for up to 15 minutes and if
they need more time that's where these
come in these diesel generators are
designed to run continuously at a
capacity of 2.5 megaw each yes my
friends 2.5 million watts each getting
these up here by the way took some
special planning which I'm told involves
cutting a hole in the side of the
building renting a crane and then
sliding them in absolutely badass but
there's one small problem now they've
got to fuel them I mean they've got this
little Reservoir here but this one run
one of these bad boys for what an
hour well as it turns out the main tanks
which include an onsite polisher to
remove water and other impurities that
can spoil the fuel those are underground
and this was done because diesel fuel is
lighter than water and equinex wanted to
design this building such that if the
entire first floor was flooded the tanks
wouldn't float away Wicked smart the
last thing they had to manage was the
noise oh the noise noise noise
noise now obviously equinex isn't going
to hit their 2030 renewable energy goals
by running diesel generators 247 but
they do need to perform monthly checks
on them and I'm told that when you fire
those things up you can't even hear
yourself think in here now given there
used to be a public library on the other
side of this wall that was a problem so
equinix designed These acoustic baffles
that Bring the Noise down to the same as
a typical City Road
and you can oh wow can you can probably
hear the difference right when I go in
there oh yeah crazy kind of necessary if
you consider that this is about the
equivalent of having five bloody trains
running in here fun fact before we leave
this room by the way diesel generation
kicks off enough smoke that conventional
smoke detectors would be giving off
constant false alarms so this room uses
flame detectors special cameras that can
see through smoke to see if there's
actual fire moving into the chiller room
we've got the exact opposite problem you
can fit so much water in this bad boy
that is why absolutely no customer
infrastructure is allowed under this
room in here are three main cooling
Loops the one behind me is filled with
antifreeze that goes between these
liquid to liquid Heat exchangers and the
large evaporative cooling fin Stacks
that are Up on the Roof we're going to
take a closer look at those in a minute
but for now now I want to look at the
other Loops those two are connected to
what is in effect the biggest freaking
air conditioner that I have ever seen
except instead of cooling air like your
air conditioner does it cools water the
hot side here carries heat to those same
heat exchangers that we just talked
about while the cold side is connected
to the rest of the building through what
equinex calls their bus architecture
which is kind of just a fancy way of
saying that it's all redundant it's all
interconnected and it's all controlled
by a BMS or building management system
and I'll show you why that's cool right
above me is our chilled water return
which is bringing heat up from the data
center floors below okay so far so
simple but where does it go
well as you can see it gets a little
complicated when it's below 4 C in
Canadian winter it essentially passes
straight through with the compressors
barely running and goes to the heat
exchangers on the roof sweet free
cooling thanks Mother Nature but then
spring rolls around and the outside air
needs some help that's when our highly
efficient magnetic bearing compressors
ramp up their cooling efforts bringing
our thermals under control but wait now
it's Midsummer and there's a heat Dome
we need more cooling Captain thankfully
we've got it now most of the time the
misters are not needed but for a
building like this you don't design for
most of the time and these rooftop fin
Stacks can either be run bare or they
can be lightly coated in water to
dramatically increase their cooling
capacity it works in the same way that
your arm gets much colder if you lick it
before you blow on it the best part is
that everything we've seen is fully
redundant including cold spares of key
components that gives equinix's team
lots of options for load balancing
during maintenance and it means that in
the event of an equipment failure or
another event equinex won't risk giving
up their nice 69 uptime Target that's an
average of about 32 seconds of downtime
per year by the way wow hilariously
sometime in the near future all the
cooling we just looked at will be
rendered redundant though when the forth
pipe goes online in the dlwc or deep
lake water cooling system if you haven't
heard of it it's basically my pool water
cool cooling setup except done properly
with massive pipes that draw 4 water
from the bottom of Lake Ontario and then
pump it into the city to cool office
towers and Arenas and well data centers
that sort of thing super cool project
since we're up here by the way these
freaking blew my mind now as consumers
when we want the lowest latency say for
gaming or video conferencing we think
fiber right well what if I told you that
there's a tier above the speed of light
well you'd probably tell me there is not
and all right you got me but here's the
thing light does not always go the same
speed and fiber optic cable slows it
down to about 2/3 of its theoretical
maximum in a vacuum now that's not
enough to matter for your game but for
Capital Market transactions where micros
seconds can be the difference between
making your trade and losing a huge
opportunity every Competitive Edge
matters and that is where these
microwave arrays come in these provide
direct line of sight links North to the
Toronto Stock Exchange and South to New
York now of course for anything where
throughput matters nobody's using these
so let's go back inside and look at good
oldfashioned fiber by the way you guys
might have noticed some extra pads and
footings for additional equipment up
here that's another nice thing about a
purpose-built building you can plan out
your future capacity and then you can
build it as needed this for instance is
a spot for another fin stack and here in
the electrical room you'll see much of
the same thing look at the Glorious
extra conduit for future installs isn't
it
beautiful this room takes in
13,800 volt power steps it down and
distributes it throughout the building
but all right enough about
infrastructure how about some customer
systems right the next two floors are
very similar so let's go with number
four this is the oldest floor and
therefore uses some older design
paradigms for starters cooling is
handled using cold Isle containment
rather than hot aisle containment and
let me show you what that means the
water from above us is getting pumped
into this air handler Corridor that
chills the air chilled air then gets
carried through ducts to the center of
the customer's cage where a thermal
probe aha will inform the system when
cooling is needed it opens up the
motorized Vents and then blasts cold air
downward it then gets sucked up into the
rack which is going to be on either side
and then exhausted out into the room
where it gets sucked into that Corridor
rinse and repeat now the main drawback
of this approach is that it allows some
mixing of the hot and cold air but
equinex still managed a solid power
usage effectiveness of
1.42 for this site since you're
wondering by the way I should probably
acknowledge that this is an Unleashed
space and there are normally strict
rules about access to these cages for
example exchanges cannot have their
cages entered at all during trading
hours and even for equinex staff unless
there's an emergency or contracted work
that needs to be done they are not
supposed to be entering customer spaces
so they built these cool access panels
where they can run any connections that
the customer requests to the outside of
the cage and then the customer can come
in and Route whatever they need for
whatever they're doing access to the
cages is controlled by access cards and
Biometrics either a hand or a
fingerprint that's stored as a hash for
customer privacy and any use of your
card is logged on top of the logs for
the biometric sensor the contact sensor
on the door the motion sensor near the
door ah there it is and of course the
camera pointed at the back of the rack
space and if all this seems Overkill You
Ain't Seen Nothing Yet many of the cages
not only have physical access barriers
but even visual blockers so no one can
see any of the equipment in use and for
the extra paranoid a top cage can be
installed to ensure that nobody can
climb over the top though of course
anyone trying to do that would have been
spotted by one of the hundreds of
cameras in this place but then as you
probably picked up by now in this
business redundancy is the name of the
game some cages go even further
requiring what's called double access
meaning that to get inside you need both
an equinex employee and a customer
employee and we even saw one with a
touch sensitive cage so if you so much
as leaned against it a ticket would get
automatically created and equinex
security would get an Irate phone call
but wait there's more they told me that
some customers will even post a guard
who stands outside their cage 24 hours a
day 7 days a week financial institutions
and government agencies will often
operate with a high degree of security
like that speaking of financial
institutions certain customers have
noticed that if they're closer to each
other they can have a physical advantage
in connection times well that's not
necessarily a good thing to solve that
problem then equinex has a system called
equidistant trading that neutralizes any
latency Advantage by running the exact
same length of fiber to every customer
who requires that the spools of excess
fiber optic cable are one of the most
protected things in the entire facility
now I was able to convince them to open
the door earlier for a quick b-roll shot
but they wouldn't let us any closer
there's a camera pointed at the cabinet
and if anyone so much as goes near it
security shows up and it's a whole to do
with reports to the SEC and the whole
kazoo moving on to the second floor this
place is sick now we weren't able to
shoot as much here due to customer
privacy concerns but we did manage to
get some footage of one of the liquid
cooled cages here building cold water
goes into a heat exchanger that pumps
chilled water to their highdensity
servers these kinds of deployments are
becoming much more common but they're
kind of an ongoing challenge for
standards lovers equinex at the moment
these guys dial in flipping everything
down to the colors of the metal posts in
their facilities by the way blue means
you hang stuff off them and gray means
they hold stuff up the more you know but
the lack of standards in the liquid
cooling space right now means that these
cages often need special provisions and
that's something that they're working
with others in the industry to solve as
rack power density continues to scale to
l ludicrous levels looking at you AI
while we're here there's a couple other
cool things about this cage there's leak
containment troughs in the ceiling under
any water pipes to ensure that even a
small leak will be caught and can't fall
onto the equipment below it and if you
look carefully at the floor there's
actually little yellow ropes running
around the outside of this cage and here
on the first floor I see another one now
I wouldn't blame you guys for thinking
gee it seems uncharacteristically sloppy
of these guys to leave this kind of
thing lying around all over the place
but it's actually not a rope they are
everywhere in this facility where
there's water and they're part of a leak
detection system that tells their team
not only if there's been a leak but
exactly exactly where it was boy would
that ever have been handy boy would that
ever have been handy boy would that ever
been handy since we're here by the way
this happens to be the newest floor in
the building remember top to bottom
buildout right this one was done about a
year ago and they refer to this data
Hall as a as a mark1 design but now that
AI has exploded power densities to
numbers that would have been Unthinkable
even 2 to 3 years ago the mark 2 designs
that they're currently constructing are
aiming at around 10 times the power per
square foot that they targeted here so
maybe that's something we could see in
another video equinex andho this floor
uses a very different system for
handling Air instead of pushing cold air
to the cages now they pull hot air out
of the cages into these chimneys that go
up into the plenum which runs into the
air handlers now it might seem like an
unimportant distinction but the higher
the temperature difference the more
efficient the thermal transfer and when
you're dealing with very high draw racks
this ensures that the hottest possible
air goes into the handling it also all
but completely prevents hot and cold air
from mixing which is a major winre
efficiency now I can practically hear
you guys shouting if you've got all the
hot air in a chimney why don't you do
what a chimney does best and blast it
out of the building well you can do that
but then you need to bring in air to
replace it air that needs to be filtered
and that needs to be humidity controlled
to handle that at the kind of volume
that you would need it's impractical so
even under very extreme conditions like
we saw last winter in Chicago I'm sorry
but you can't just swing open the doors
of a Data Center and hope that it'll run
cooler by the way we didn't show this on
the other customer floors but there's
actually two equivalent air handling
systems on opposite sides of each floor
each with the capacity to handle the
entire floor in the event of a failure
by the way before we leave the customer
systems area I was very surprised to
hear that equinex does not use exotic
fire suppression methods op instead for
standard water sprinklers but then I
found out they're not quite standard see
the pipes are not flooded with water all
the time but rather they're full of
inert gas and water only flows into them
if two out of three systems go off and a
plastic head melt so they use heat
detection smoke detection and the
world's most expensive PVC runs these
are part of a vesda or very early smoke
detection alarm system system that can
not only detect smoke but also
triangulate where it's coming from to
ensure that only the necessary sprinkler
head goes off they made this choice
because oxygen depletion fire
suppression can pose very real risks to
any Personnel who get accidentally
trapped so good guy equinex let's go to
the basement above me is where utility
power comes into the building or rather
this is one of the two rooms because
redundancy right now interestingly the
power company can actually control this
unit remotely allowing them to turn it
on and off and even scale how much power
comes in that is not a normal thing but
because there's so much power going into
this building in an emergency they might
need to call equinix and say hey um we
need more power could you guys just turn
all of this off and Island yourselves
this kind of collaboration is really
important because equinex estimates that
this this building draws somewhere in
the neighborhood of 3% of the city's
entire power budget if a multi megawatt
load kicks in suddenly without warning
or drops suddenly without warning it is
a big problem for grid stability with
that said they do turn it off and on
regularly though every year they do a
scheduled pull the plug test and
quarterly they do load tests where they
will bring in load Banks to ensure that
the building can actually power
everything that it's rated for these
things sound pretty cool basically if
they don't have enough servers running
they bring in Big Blocks of metal and
they fire up the generators and make
them glow red hot flipping wild finally
there's the fiber in room it's funny
they thought that this was going to be
underwhelming and they were all like are
you sure you even want to see it but it
really goes to show you how numb you can
get to cool stuff if you spend your
whole day around it now in fairness to
them they are kind of right I mean it
pretty much looks exactly like the fiber
room our building back home line comes
in from outside line loops around as is
tradition and then gets spliced or
patched to wherever the difference is
that I could probably fit my entire
family hula hooping inside these
freaking loops and where they go to is
even cooler they go outside to one of
the seven manholes that get shared by
the approximately 60 carriers that route
into this building that is what the
carrier's access ends equinix splices
runs from the manholes to this room and
then they run it up to the floors above
the carriers only get access again once
it reaches their cage this is how
equinex enforces the principle of equity
of access that inspired their name oh
and of course there are two of these
rooms with fiber coming in from two
different sides of the building because
in the event of a construction worker
accidentally cutting one of these or
something they got to have redundancy I
got to tell you guys there is so much we
weren't able to fully cover if you
noticed QR codes on everything those are
cool they use AR to direct technicians
for fault Discovery and to map out
customer connection requests um the
18-wheeler dock can be completely closed
off for privacy and security when you're
unloading racks uh they have employee
facilities on site so when an emergency
you can shower shave sleep you know your
3 s's um they turn off the lights
whenever no humans are detected to save
power they've got grounding strips
freaking everywhere they have direct
links to their other buildings to turn
their entire flock of data centers into
a giant redundant mesh guys there is so
much more but I think it might have to
wait for next time for now massive
thanks to equinix for sponsoring this
video and giving us such an in-depth
look at the kind of space that most
people are never going to set foot in
let alone get a comprehensive tour of
hopefully we'll get a chance to do it
again sometime if you guys enjoyed this
video hey you might enjoy this kind of
high security nobody gets to see it kind
of stuff so maybe check out the Intel
Fab tour that we did last year